All right, so let's write a couple tests for our job listings component.
This component really has two responsibilities.
The first is making an API request to this endpoint, and the second is rendering as many job listings
as there are jobs in the API response.
So with that said, we can remove this code we have from the previous lesson, this invocation of yep,
we still want to keep the import of Axios and the mocking of that library because this will affect the
component when we mount it.
But for now, let's proceed with the import of our mount function as well as our component.
So for this test I'm actually going to import shallow mount.
I see no reason to do a full mount of the job listings component because we already have a separate
test suite just for the job listing component.
And I really only care that job listings renders as many job listing components as there are jobs.
I don't really care about the internal details of this component.
I don't care if it's a stub.
So I'm totally fine stubbing out all of my children in this component by using the shallow mount function.
So right here, shallow mount from view test utils.
That looks good.
Let's also import our actual job listings component that is going to come from the source directory
components.
Job Results.
Job listings.
Let's describe our job listings component.
Let's provide an arrow function as the second argument.
All right.
So the first test that I'd like to write is simply going to test that we have made the right request
to the right endpoint to get the jobs.
We don't care about running a real server.
So all we really care about is if we mount the component, do we properly call the get method on the
access object and do we give it this argument of HTP localhost, 3000 jobs?
So right here I'm going to write a test.
It fetches jobs.
Recall that the mounted lifecycle hook automatically runs when the component is mounted.
So as soon as I'm multi-component, it should automatically make this request.
And because we have marked out Axios, we can simply test after we mount the component.
Has this mark been properly invoked and called with the right argument?
So right here I'm going to shallow mount my job listings component.
I don't even need to assign it to a wrapper constant or anything like that.
And then below, I'm going to expect that if I talk to my Axios get method, which is going to be a
just mock function at this point.
You may recall from earlier in the course that if we provide a mock function to expect, there is a
special assertion called to have been called with that validates that that mock function first has been
invoked or called, and secondly, that it has been invoked with a specific argument or arguments.
So here I want just to test that.
Yes, we have called the get method, which should happen automatically right here mounted, but also
that it has been invoked with the expected URL, which is HTP call in slash slash localhost, 3000 slash
jobs.
I'm going to save this.
And we do have a passing test.
We have a couple of warnings here, which we will get back to in just a second.
But just to show you that this test is testing for the right thing, I'm just going to make this test
fail by, let's say, removing a character right here and saving it and rerunning it.
And you can see right now that we're now going to get a test failure because the test is expecting a
endpoint to be hit of slash job.
But now we are actually receiving an end point from our actual implementation of slash jobs.
And what that tells me is that indeed, when we are mounting job listings, the code is running through
mounted.
It is successfully calling our get mock function with this string and just as properly saying, hey,
I got slash job's not slash job, which is kind of our certainty, our validation that this code is
properly running.
So with that, I can change this back to jobs to make this a passing test.
And now let's take a look at our actual warning right here on Handle the promise rejection warning cannot
read property data of undefined.
So there's actually a couple issues here.
Number one, you'll notice that the response object that we get back from this get method call has a
data property.
So it is an object fundamentally at the end of the day.
Now, when Gest mocks out any of the live libraries methods, and when I say library, I mean Axios.
What just does by default is it creates a mock function that returns undefined by default.
So when we have an object, when we return, undefined, obviously there is no data.
Property cannot read property data of undefined.
And that's why we're getting this issue.
So we can get a little bit more technical when it comes to our box and we can tell the Axios library
or just more specifically that when the get method is called, don't just use your standard, just mock
function.
Use a mock function that returns an object with a data property.
But we have to be a little bit more careful here because it's not just a return value like a regular
function, it's actually a resolved value because the get method is asynchronous and returns a promise.
That's why we have to use this a weight keyword in front of it, because it's some kind of asynchronous
operation which will take some amount of time.
So we need our test to simulate an async function, not a plane function.
So right here, let me just show you the syntax.
I can go into my Axios object.
I can get my get method, which is now a just mock function.
And that mock function is a whole bunch of methods on it.
So for example, one of those methods is mock return value, which allows me to specify the return value
that the function should return when it's invoked.
So for example, if I put in five here and then I did Axios.
Got get below and invoked it.
Let me just show you this in the test.
You're going to see that that function is going to return five.
Right.
So that's that's going to work, however, to more closely simulate the idea of an actual asynchronous
function that returns a promise.
We should change this to mock resolved value.
That basically means, hey, just treat Axios dot get as a function that returns a promise that resolves
to a value of five.
All right.
Now, in this case, of course, we don't want the value five.
We want an object that is similar to the object that the real get method returns to us, which is going
to be an object with a data property.
And of course that data property is going to be an array of our jobs.
We don't really care about the jobs for this test.
We don't care about the response.
So a simple array should suffice.
We can almost pretend as if the back end returned nothing.
For the purposes of this test, if we are caring about the the calling of the Axios get method with
the right argument, we don't care what the response is.
We just need some kind of asynchronous value that has a data property so we can extract it right here
in the implementation.
So with that, I'm going to remove my console.log, save this and you can see our test passes and we
also get rid of the warning.
All right.
So now we can go ahead and write our second test.
So right here, the second responsibility of the job listings component is that it creates a job listing
for each received job.
So right here, what I'm going to do is I'm going to copy the first two lines from above.
And this time around I am going to assign my wrapper to a constant called wrapper.
And this is where we have to be a little bit more clever because we want to test that.
We are rendering as many job listing components as there are jobs in the data that we get back from
the response rate because we are iterating over the job slice of data and we are writing the job slice
of data from that response object that comes from Axios.
So in this case, if we have an array with no objects in it, we're going to have zero job listing components.
So we have to pick some kind of arbitrary number.
Let's say I'm going to choose 15 just to have a nice healthy number.
And so if we have an array of 15 objects, then we expect that we're going to have 15 job listing components.
So instead of populating an array with 15 objects, which is going to take a lot of time, there is
actually a JavaScript shortcut we can use.
So if you write array with a capital A and then provide a pair of parentheses, you can actually create
an array of a given length.
So for example, if I provide 15, that's going to create an array of 15 elements.
The question is, what is a single element?
What are those 15 items that are going to go into the array?
While in order to specify that I can invoke a method on this called fill and to fill I provide a sample
element and JavaScript is going to emulate or copy that element 15 times throughout this array.
So for now, for it to represent a job, let's just do a simple empty JavaScript object.
So what I have here is an array of 15 empty JavaScript objects.
Now, why don't I care about the specifics of the object?
Why don't I care if it actually has a title property and a description property like a real job?
Well, for the purposes of this test, I don't think this test really cares.
We really care about 15 job listing components.
I don't really care whether each job is the real job object.
I really just care about 15 job listings being rendered.
So as long as I have an array with 15 of anything.
This V for loop should work properly and we should still test the implementation without getting super
deep into what this object has to be and making the test more convoluted and larger.
I don't need to write 15 sample job objects here and fill up 50 lines of space when I really need for
this v4 to work is just an array.
That's really all I need for the for it to work.
So this is good enough for this test.
And the reader or the other developer who is reading after us can see, okay, you have an array of
15 items.
I understand where your assertion that you have 15 job listing components is coming from.
The numbers must match.
So below what I want to do is look for my job listings and of course what I'm going to do here.
Instead of invoking the find a method which is going to find the first occurrence of whatever we specify
either an element or a CSC class or a dataset attribute.
Instead of that, I'm going to invoke the find all method, which is going to find all occurrences of
whatever we specify.
So here I want to find all occurrences of a data test attribute, and that data test attribute is going
to be job listing.
Again, that name is up to me.
I'm going to expect some number of occurrences of something in my template that's going to have this
attribute of job listing.
And so once I have that, this is going to be basically like an array like object.
I want to validate that that array has 15 items in it.
Because remember, this array represents all occurrences of a job listing.
Technically, it represents all occurrences of something that has a dot, a test attribute of job listing,
but it's the same conceptual idea.
So in order to validate and erase length, we can, of course take job listings and get its length property
and check that that is equal to 15.
But there's actually a complimentary just nature that does this all in a single assertion.
And that assertion is to have length.
So that's going to take the object or the array and validate that it has a given length.
And of course, what do I want this length to be?
I want it to be 15.
I want 15 elements or aspects or whatever you want to call it.
15 things in my template that are going to have this data test attribute of job listing.
So when I save this and run this test, we're going to have a failure.
We expected a length of 15, but we received a length of zero.
Makes sense.
It was not able to find anything in our template with a data test of job listing.
So of course, right here for our job listing component, as we iterate 15 times, we're going to create
15 of those.
And to each one of those 15 job listings, I'm going to add the same data test attribute.
It's totally okay if it's duplicate because we're looking for the same one.
I'm going to give each job listing component the data test attribute of job listing.
And so we expect this test to passed based expect this test to pass, but it does not.
Don't worry, our test is pretty much close to done.
There's one thing we're missing, and I'm going to show you what it is in the very next lesson.